#summary Explanation of how exporting and importing of bones works in SM64DSe

*Introduction*

Models in SM64DS are often split up into different chunks, 'bones'. This allows each chunk, such as an arm 
to be animated separately. Each bone has a set of transformations that must be applied to it for it to be 
displayed properly. SM64DSe supports exporting and importing models split up into bones to allow for importing 
models to use animation. For example, you can  export Mario's model, either edit that model or split up an 
existing model in a similar manner and then re-import your new model over Mario and your new model will be 
animated like the original.

(Please see BMD documentation for more information.)


*Exporting*

When exporting, the bones' transformations are applied so the model looks 'normal' when editing. The model 
is split up into its different chunks using the OBJ "o" command. Each bone can then be edited separately 
within the 3D modelling program, eg. Blender. The model can be edited as normal and more bones added if 
wanted.

Information about each bone is stored in the .bones file created when exporting. This is linked to the .obj 
file with the line "bonelib FILENAME.bones" at the top of the .obj file. <br>
The .bones file contains the following 
data on each bone:<br>
_newbone_: this tells the importer a new bone is being defined and gives the bone name, like the newmtl command in 
the material library<br>
_parent_offset_: Offset in bones the current bone's parent<br>
_has_children_: Whether or not the bone has child bones, 0 - no, 1 - yes<br>
_sibling_offset_: Offset in bones to the current bone's next sibling. <br>These three fields are used to determine the 
bones' hierarchical structure<br>
_scale_: X, Y and Z Scale transformation of the current bone. (32-bit signed, 20:12 fixed point. Think GX command 0x1B)<br>
_rotation_: X, Y and Z Rotation transformation of the current bone. (16-bit signed, 0x0400 = 90°)<br>
_translation_: X, Y and Z Translation of the current bone. (32-bit signed, 20:12 fixed point. Think GX command 0x1C)<br>
These last three fields are stored in hexadecimal format.

Important Notes<br>
- Please note that exporting is not perfect when assigning faces to the correct bone due to how BMD files are structured 
so some manual fixing may be required before re-importing.<br>

An example of what an exported model looks like can be found <a href ="http://s16.postimg.org/7gfod037n/Exported_Model_Whomp.png">here</a> (Textures also not perfect due to OBJ limitations).

*Importing*

When importing the bones' transformations are applied in reverse so that they are restored to their original state and 
their transformations can be applied again. SM64DSe supports importing OBJ and DAE models that are split up into bones. 
For OBJ the OBJ "o" command is used to split the model into bones, whilst in DAE <geometry> element are used. To specify 
the settings for each bone, you must include a .bones file, for OBJ the following line at the beginning of the model is 
used:
bonelib FILENAME.bones

and for DAE:

<bonelib value="FILENAME.bones"/>

where FILENAME is the name of your .bones file.

A .bones file is not necessary, however models that use animation will not be animated correctly as the animation file (.BCA) 
expect certain transformations to be applied to the model. If not found, each bone will be assigned the default values with a 
recursive parent-child relationship between each bone.

When creating a new model, you can either edit an exported model, already split up into bones, or you can split up an 
existing model in a similar manner to original.

- Once finished editing/creating your model, export it to either OBJ or DAE format (for OBJ your modelling 
program must support the OBJ "o" command). 
- Ensure the bone names in your model match those listed in the .bones file, if they don't, you will need to manually change 
either your model or .bones file
- Add the .bones file to your model as described above.
- Import your model

Tips:

Some models eg. the characters have textures animated using .BTP files (sequence of textures to swap) such as Mario blinking. 
Whilst could find every BTP file and manually change the texture, palette and material names, it's much easier to give your 
new model's materials, textures and palettes the same name. Material names are set using the name defined in your model, 
texture names are set to the diffuse map filename (leave out the extension to get a match to the original) and palettes are the 
texture name + "_pl" - most (all?) models use this for palette names so should be fine. If your material, texture and palette 
names don't match the original and you've not changed the BTP file your level will crash on entry.
